Machine learning (ML) is a field of study in artificial intelligence concerned with the development and study of statistical algorithms that can learn from data and generalize to unseen data, and thus perform tasks without explicit instructions.[1] Recently, artificial neural networks have been able to surpass many previous approaches in performance.[2][3]

ML finds application in many fields, including natural language processing, computer vision, speech recognition, email filtering, agriculture, and medicine.[4][5] When applied to business problems, it is known under the name predictive analytics. Although not all machine learning is statistically based, computational statistics is an important source of the field's methods.

The mathematical foundations of ML are provided by mathematical optimization (mathematical programming) methods. Data mining is a related (parallel) field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis (EDA) through unsupervised learning.[7][8]

From a theoretical viewpoint, probably approximately correct (PAC) learning provides a framework for describing machine learning.

SUPERVISED LEARNING : 
Supervised learning algorithms build a mathematical model of a set of data that contains both the inputs and the desired outputs.[48] The data is known as training data, and consists of a set of training examples. Each training example has one or more inputs and the desired output, also known as a supervisory signal. In the mathematical model, each training example is represented by an array or vector, sometimes called a feature vector, and the training data is represented by a matrix. Through iterative optimization of an objective function, supervised learning algorithms learn a function that can be used to predict the output associated with new inputs.[49] An optimal function allows the algorithm to correctly determine the output for inputs that were not a part of the training data. An algorithm that improves the accuracy of its outputs or predictions over time is said to have learned to perform that task.[19]

UNSUPERVISED LEARNING :
Unsupervised learning algorithms find structures in data that has not been labeled, classified or categorized. Instead of responding to feedback, unsupervised learning algorithms identify commonalities in the data and react based on the presence or absence of such commonalities in each new piece of data. Central applications of unsupervised machine learning include clustering, dimensionality reduction,[8] and density estimation.[51] Unsupervised learning algorithms also streamlined the process of identifying large indel based haplotypes of a gene of interest from pan-genome.[52]

